Apple's latest Mac Pro is an
embarrassment it doesn't even have their
latest gen M3 silicon it costs
3400 more than a Mac Studio that has the
exact same specs and their prices on
storage and RAM upgrades would seem to
suggest that they're made out of gold
rather than silicon the worst part
though it's not even that good yeah here
we go final scores 3,000 and change 1,00
and change wow wow 50% faster on CP you
but showing you all the results right
away is no fun and not very helpful so
let's talk about our choices while we
work together to build the PC Pro to
yeah if you remember this isn't the
first time we've done this and last time
the PC wasn't a clear winner unlike our
sponsor MSI if you don't have time to go
through the process of picking out parts
and building your own PC msi's AIS RS
gaming desktop comes pre-built with
powerful components on like a Wi-Fi 7
enabled motherboard and it has the
benefit of being easily upgradeable
check it out at the link down below
right out of the gate this PC Pro build
is going to be a bit more of a challenge
while our Mac Pro comes in at a whopping
$1,800 the old one was like $330,000 so
bargain well it all depends on what
you're getting right there are two
different M2 Ultras one with 60 GPU
cores and the other with
76 we've gone with the ladder meaning
that that machine is as fast as it can
be meanwhile the PC Pro is getting
something a little I don't know newer
faster wider how about all of the above
the AMD thread for 79 70x features amd's
latest zen4 architecture with a
monstrous 32 cores and a boost clock of
5.3 GHz all while drawing
350 watts and that's before you turn on
PBO or Precision boost over overdrive
more on that later but um is a potential
drawback of our machine uh compared to
that one this isn't a top-of-the line
thread r or anything that would have
cost us more than half of our budget by
itself but I'm still confident that this
CPU is going to have no issue I'm still
confident that this bad boy is going to
run circles around that
thing now unlike the Mac Pro with its
soldered CPU our chip needs a
motherboard with a socket to go in
specifically the gigaby tx50 aod there's
only a handful of tx50 motherboards out
there right now and we settled on this
one primarily due to the spacing of its
PCI Express slots which is going to make
a bit more sense later it also
conveniently is the least expensive TRX
50 board while still including great
features like dual high-speed land ports
Wi-Fi 7 and a whopping four quad Lane
m.2 slots three of which are PCI Gen 5
now hold on a minute lonus this is
regular thread Ripper how is this
machine machine pro that is a fair point
compared to thread Ripper Pro we've got
fewer pcie Lanes so you can't connect as
much stuff to it and limited Ram
capacity across half as many memory
channels but then I ask you this how do
we stack up to the competition compared
even to this nonpr system the Mac Pro
has fewer pcie Lane still supports less
Ram has limited support for professional
application outside of video and photo
and doesn't support ECC memory at all it
does have faster memory but we'll have
to see how much of an advantage that's
going to give it let's talk about memory
the base model Mac Pro comes with 64
gbes of unified memory and unified
memory is legitimately super cool Apple
Ram is directly on the S so package
which increases bandwidth to both the
CPU and the onboard GPU not only is it
fast
but if the CPU completes a task and
needs to hand it off to the GPU that GPU
has immediate access to it rather than
having to wait for it to be transferred
between system memory and traditional
GPU memory Apple's Ram also supports
Dynamic caching meaning that the CPU and
GPU can partition the system memory
dynamically to best complete their
respective work or at least the M3 can
it sucks that this Mac Pro is still
stuck with the M2 and what also sucks
even more is the price we added another
128 gigs to our config which cost us
$1,600 on the PC side okay sure it's not
unified but boy do we ever get a whole
lot more for our money I am talking
double the capacity at 384 GB these are
micron's 96 gig 56 600 megat transfer
per second dims they're registered ECC
meaning they should
be beautifully stable and we're going to
fill all four slots here maxing out our
motherboard it's kind of funny we ended
up with exactly double the ram because
there was that clip that circulated of
an Apple employee erroneously stating
during an interview that 8 GB on an M3
uh MacBook Pro is probably analogous to
16 gab on other systems I guess that's
why it costs twice as much another sore
spot that Apple users have been
complaining about more and more lately
is storage pricing to go from the stock
one terabyte in that machine to 8
terabytes will add $2,200 to your bill
$2200 for that price you could buy a
whole other computer you could buy one
of every screwdriver on LTD store.com
twice or you could do what we did and
pick up two of these the Cy rocket 4
plus 80
terabyte yeah yeah that's right twice as
much storage hey Apple uh is your 8
terabytes equivalent to our 16 terabytes
is that is that a thing we're going to
find out yeah we sure will but what we
can do is just have double the capacity
whether it's for projects videos games
or whatever we want one advantage for
Apple though has been and maybe always
will be sex appeal I mean look at this
fine ass cheese crater that's why people
keep buying this thing
for us we've gone
with well it's fine this is the Define 7
XL it's not a new case by any means but
it's compatible with high-end Hardware
fits lots of storage drives and uh
hopefully won't be too constricted when
it comes to airflow worst case scenario
will'll drill some holes in the front
bring back the cheese grater
aesthetic for cooling we've got on with
an NZXT Kraken 360 because well we had
mounting hardware and with this triple
radiator it was able to handle our 32
CPU cores Under full load at least at
their default speeds uh the system does
support overclocking but it's really not
something that we would recommend for a
pro machine in a production environment
anyway now while you watch this
delightful little Montage of our cooler
being installed I'd like you to think
back to when I said this motherboard had
the pcie slot spacing we needed that is
because for our build we are using not
one but two of msi's RTX 490 Supreme
cards yes my friends apple is what it
took for nvidia's pricing to finally
seem so reasonable that you can just put
in
two however there's a Twist the keite
among you might have noticed that one of
my cards is aircooled and one of them
has water cooling that my friends is
because we couldn't find any combination
of motherboard and case that could fit
two air cooled
490s and then well when we wanted two of
the liquid cool ones we found out gosh
darn it AI rush and China there's now a
4090 shortage so we asked our
trustworthy bro Ryan from the LTT store
support team if we could borrow his air
cool variant and we used our one
remaining liquid cooled variant that way
we've got two of the same cards but with
slightly different
hats now since the shortage prices for
these have gone up a fair bit but still
think we're going to end up looking
pretty good by
comparison let me deal with
that anywh who to power this mess we
went with the Silverstone Hela 2050 R
platinum or SST ha250 r- PM for short it
costs a whopping 6
$170 which only sounds like a bad deal
until you compare it to the Mac Pro
ah
reasonable now that the build's done all
we got to do
is fire it up and run some benchmarks
now our final price not that far off but
for fun we're going to include results
with both gpus as well as with only one
GPU because a little bird told
me bird named Elijah H that it'll still
win even with just one GPU yes good job
bird spoiler
berer I stuttered I'm sorry IED up the
shot no I loved it it was great Ed her
to flee cut around and make me look good
can you please freeze frame cut around
him put me on a beach
you make me look good give him like a
Tom celic mustache and like you don't
know who Tom celic is he's the selian
one
what does that mean couldn't help
noticing Elijah we're off to a pretty
bad start here our system didn't even
boot up error code Zer D you think
you've seen little PP energy that's zero
PP energy and they're
booted
finally PCS y but which one's faster
classroom and go wait that's what is it
F12 I don't know I don't is there a
hotkey to render yeah oh I didn't know
that it is F12 there you go go I got
to12 on a MAG what is this command
option F12 oh I don't know I was just
guessing I give that if anyone should
have had the Head Start it should have
been you spoiler are you done uh no I oh
no it's still going yes I am going much
faster than you though oh wow yes you
are all right I finished I'm not even
halfway you started late you started
late let's give it the benefit of doubt
we'll let it heat up catch up you know I
started like 5 seconds after
[Music]
so quiet though it sounds like it's
barely doing anything wait since we're
still waiting for the Mac anyway why
don't you run a GPU intensive test and
see if they spin up yeah sure we'll run
c a bench we'll see what it can what
results it can give us you oh you
finished did I finish yeah total time oh
246 was the end result Leon's so proud
of
me here we go boom it's starting oh hey
you've got to run on Theo sorry sorry
sorry sorry GPU start hey my fans are
spinning definitely louder is it yeah no
I mean louder than the Mac like this
thing is silent yeah I mean that's what
happens when you hook a raspberry piie
up to a heat SN this
big it's not a raspberry piie it's a
powerful computer it's an apple pie yeah
don't feel bad your computer's really
powerful good
boy okay this is this has rendered this
multiple times we're getting about
65,000 points give or take it's doing it
over and over and over
preparing it hasn't even started just
read it like four times remember the
first gen when Apple was all rgpu was
like
yeah and NV video's like what are you
even talking
about okay that was the 390 if I recall
correctly not the 490 but still it has
done this multiple times while it's
trying to finish this one it's kind of
insane how it's just crushing it there
it finally finished one 9500
points we are over six times that what
was our difference in price give or take
like a couple hundred bucks depending on
sales of Parts but Final Cut the
ecosystem I get my Windows phone back
please bring it back dozens of people
are so upset right
now is the noise difference enough that
you would prefer to buy the Mac over
this no this is still a really quiet
machine we should put the side panel on
In fairness though oh yeah Apple's side
panel game on fleek kids don't say that
anymore how would you know you're old
now let's do the CPU version of cine
bench first before we completely write
this thing off though and they're off
coming out of the gate strong we've got
nobody nobody is coming out of the gate
strong wa hold on a sec this actually
closer yeah this may be a competition oh
okay oh PC Pro two is picking up speed
is coming out ahead around the first
turn I'm going to stop that now yeah
please do yeah this one had like a
moment where I thought hey yeah hey yeah
no hey
yeah what cuz you said hey yeah it's a
song Oh I don't get
it do we have scores yet yes 3,000
2,000 oh this one's not even done still
though oh does it give preliminary
scores yeah I think oh that's
interesting estimating what it's going
to be and then okay well it's almost
done it or it's like halfway done its
second one though and this one's not
done its first it took a bit to spool up
yeah here we go final scores 3,000 and
change 1,900 in change wow wow 50%
faster on CPU Apple silicon has been a
huge win for them in Mobile Mac Mini
super cool machine the studio as well
cuz we're not we're just dissing this
one because it's the same spec but it's
like what $3,400 we said more expensive
B you're paying 35 00 for a fancy case
and some PCI slots you don't even have
expandable Ram in it anymore like you
used to and that's the problem we like
Silicon because of its efficiency and
you know we love silicon okay can't say
that Apple silicon oh we love silicone
what nobody is talking about that
they're
different what silicon yeah is an
element okay silicone is a compound
compound that contains silicon so
they're the same no that's like saying
that water is the same as oxygen because
there's oxygen in
it I understand now we got there ladies
and gentlemen for LS gaming sure let's
play game so CS2 Counter Strike 2 it is
that's going really fast yeah that's
pretty fast how fast could you download
the game delete it and reinstall it all
right manage uninstall here we go
1.5 1.6 is the Mac going to win the game
download Benchmark oh no oh did we beat
it three yes we pass okay we beat it for
3.1 one thing I will say that is a w
though that boots way faster yeah that
was a problem we had with the last Mac
Pro killer as well was that one took a
while to boot workstation platforms on
PC tend to
be poorly optimized but hey you can
download games at 3.4 GB per second
compared to 2.8 wait is Counterstrike 2
not available for Mac did you check it's
not available for Mac so it's trying to
get you to launch it oh for I didn't
even realize that okay rocket League
rocket League's not launching either is
are you sure this is it doesn't work on
the M silicon okay are were you just
trying to make a point that nothing
works or were we supposed to compare I
was trying to make a point that it's
very difficult there's very select games
that you know you may or may not get to
play the ones you want were you or did
you think they worked I totally was
doing it on purpose it is one of my f
whoa sound Boomer enabled okay very cute
sound Boomer is not a real
thing what speaker is that is it just
playing off the boom speaker that sounds
like it eh is that a thing I didn't know
that was a thing it could do well
where's your PC Pro built-in speaker
at okay fine I guess you got me on that
one all right I don't have a speaker
embedded in my computer to be clear
Linux is a piece of Windows is a piece
of so when I say Mac OS is
also sometimes problematic don't get
upset you know why can't I type right
now you know I'm clicking this box I'm
highlighting this
text it's not that my keyboard's not
working oh look Spotlight oh good wait I
think I figured it out keystroke
receiving dusk would like to receive
keystrokes from any
application so like clicking I don't is
that what it's asking so it wants access
to the keyboard to play I'm exhausted
just trying to open one stupid game oh
wow this mouse is really laggy imagine
the bottom charging port not being the
worst thing about
it hey wave two shotgun let's go I mean
it looks kind of smooth I can't tell
what you're feeling with the mouse
though does it feel rubbery oh no it's
well the mouse is terrible but the
actual game is fine okay yeah it's
running super smooth yeah so why don't I
have an FPS counter dumb question did it
actually enable I don't know okay I'll
tell you what Elijah's going to find at
least one game that runs on both of them
we're going to have a little graph right
here but spoiler alert it's not going to
be pretty because the raw horsepower of
the gpus in the PC Pro 2 is vastly
greater and remember that in games we
aren't even able to make use of both of
them because Invidia no longer supports
Envy link or SLI at all for that matter
on consumer cards jerk so okay lonus we
hear you apple is expensive and none of
their products are good but that's not
what I'm saying there are some arguments
strong Arguments for many of Apple's
products there's the power and
portability of the MacBook the
efficiency of the Mac Studio or my
personal favorite the Mac Mini that
thing is a Powerhouse or the convenience
of airpods which I happen to daily drive
it's just that the Mac Pro is so bad
that Apple will almost certainly can it
by which I don't mean turn it into a can
again I remember that I mean discontinue
it I mean even Apple's most ENT
Defenders are starting to realize that
Apple's pricing especially with Halo
products like this just doesn't make any
sense anymore if you search for the M2
Ultra Mac Pro almost every article or
video reaches the same conclusion it's
dumb there are some things that it does
do well I mean like the Mac Studio
because it's the exact same machine the
single Cor performance was actually on
par or even better than our PC Pro 2
sometimes and its efficiency is
outstanding I think its overall power
consumption is closer to one of these
gpus than it is to this entire system
but for the price of this thing you can
get a fully kitted out Max studio for
your home office and still have enough
money to buy a refurbished M2 Max
MacBook Pro from Apple's certified
refurbished store or if all that seems
like a bad idea you could buy this fancy
segue now with $700 Wheels to our
sponsor ground news they want to change
how we engage with news by helping us
better understand media bias and break
free from it because while the internet
has connected us more than ever it's
particularly good at connecting us to
people and news stories that we happen
to already agree with ground news solves
this by analyzing thousands of Articles
and news sources each day merging the
coverage of same events to help paint a
fuller picture of today's news every
story on ground news comes with this
little bar that breaks down the
political leanings of the outlets that
are reporting on the story for example
there was recently a Cyber attack on a
Pennsylvania State Court agency Outlets
from one side of the spectrum reported
on this story but it received way less
coverage on the other side wondering why
well ground news lets you look into each
outlet and dig into what topics they
cover and what topics they don't and why
it's time we had a smarter way to read
the news so go to ground. newws / Linus
or click the link down below and you can
get 40% off their unlimited access
Vantage plan today if you guys enjoyed
this video go back and watch the first
time we did this that one cost over
$30,000 and it actually wasn't even a
clear winner so I don't know hey at
least Apple's cut the price since
then